The errors resulting from the navigator are due to the threshold distance from the target calculated, which was set to 3cm during this lab, but because theta is corrected every ten cycles of the while loop, the robot consistently stops within 1cm of the target point. This can be corrected by decreasing this tolerated distance, but choosing a value too low will waste time because the robot will have to oscillate more to achieve it.
The controller works by pointing the robot towards its target coordinate. It moves toward it, running in a while loop that checks the ultrasonic sensor for obstacles every cycle, and incrementing a count which allows it to check theta and run turnTo() to correct its angular error every ten cycles of the while loop. This loop runs while distance is greater than the threshold distance from the point, which is set to three. This results in the robot not having to oscillate to get to its exact position. When turnTo() is called the robot stops to turn, this happens about once every 5-10 seconds, and further improvements could be implemented to adjust theta while the robot is in motion.
The controller consistently moves to within 1 cm of the target point as read by the odometer. However, the odometer incurs an additional error of ~1cm from wheel slippage. Making the overall accuracy around 2cm.
Increasing the speed of the robot will result in greater wheel slippage, and increase the error in the odometer. The main source of error in the overall robot, using navigation and odometry is from slippage error in the odometer because this can only be reduced by decreasing the speed of the robot. Excluding the odometer, error in the navigation is also caused by the distance threshold, but this can be reduced by reducing the threshold.
A software solution to reducing error in wheel slippage is to reduce the speed at which it moves, but this becomes an issue when time is important. Use of the an additional sensor such as the light sensor to aid in determining the robots position is a hardware solution.
